.ig
vhs - Video Handler Script
Copyright (C) März 07 by Simon Arjuna Erat (sea) - erat.simon@gmail.com
.. ....................................................
.TH "vhs" 1 "2015-03-07" "Simon Arjuna Erat (sea)" "Video Handler Script, using ffmpeg"



.SH NAME
vhs (1.3.3)



.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBvhs\fP 
.OP options
.RI "[input files ...]"
.br



.SH DESCRIPTION
VHS, the Video Handler Script is a wrapper script for FFMPEG. It aims to ease repeating tasks to one's personal favorite settings.
.br
Only the container and language settings apply to each and every call of VHS, all other default values must be enabled/set/changed by the options passed.
.br
To configure the default values used by VHS, please pass
.B vhs -C
to the use the configuration menu, or edit the file directly. See its place in the 
.B vhs -h
output.
.br
VHS is ment to simplify these tasks:
.RS 3
.B 1.
Convert to another container / video format
.br
.B 2.
Reduce Video filesize
.br
.B 3.
Screenrecording
.br
.B 4.
Webcam recording
.br
.B 5.
Guide recording (screen with webcam as pip)
.br
.B 6.
Creating Video-DVD backups
.br
.B 7.
Create Videofiles to be played on smartphones
.br
.B 8.
Extract audio/subtitle stream/s
.br
.B 9.
Add audio-/subtitle stream
.RE



.SH OPTIONS
.OP "-2"
.RS 4
Use 2-pass encoding for every output video.
.RE

.OP "-a FILE"
.RS 4
Add passed FILE. 
.br
Most prefered to add another audio stream or supply subtitles.
.RE

.OP "-A"
.RS 4
Advanced mode. 
.br
Opens a text editor to edit the generated command before its execution.
.RE

.OP "-b [av]NUM"
.RS 4
Use either 'a' or 'v' to define if the kilobitrate NUM is used for audio or video.
.RE

.OP "-B"
.RS 4
Use the default bitrates for both audio and video from the default configuration.
.br
See: $HOME/.config/vhs/vhs.conf
.RE

.OP "-c [atv]NAME"
.RS 4
Set the codec used for audio, subtitle or video to NAME.
.RE

.OP "-C"
.RS 4
Opens the configuration menu.
.RE

.OP "-d RES"
.RS 4
Dimension.
.br
Sets the outputvideo-width according to RES, but keeps aspect ratio: "'RES:-1'"
.RE

.OP "-D"
.RS 4
Encodes a DVD.
.RE

.OP "-e CONTAINER"
.RS 4
Saves the output as CONTAINER.
.br
Where CONTAINER can be one of:
.br
.I aac  ac3  avi  dts  flac  flv  mkv  mp3  mp4  mpeg  ogg  ogv  theora  vorbis  wav  webm  wma  wmv  xvid
.RE

.OP "-f FPS"
.RS 4
Forces to use "'FPS'" fps.
.RE

.OP "-F"
.RS 4
Force to use the default (25) FPS rate.
.RE

.OP "-G"
.RS 4
Records the full desktop and uses the webcam for PiP (picture in picture).
.br
See the PiP option for more details.
.RE

.OP "-i"
.RS 4
For every passed file it prints its name and lists its available streams.
.RE

.OP "-I ID"
.RS 4
Where ID is a valid number of an audio stream of the current inputfile.
.br
Pass this for any ID wanted, or use quotes to pass multiple stream IDs at once.
.RE

.OP "-j"
.RS 4
Copy mjpeg (video-icon-image).
.br
Also used to copy other attachments such as fonts.
.RE

.OP "-K"
.RS 4
Opens a dialog to select which VHS background job/task shall be killed.
.br
Note that all encoding, recording and saving are done in background by default, to limit the visible output.
.RE

.OP "-l LNG"
.RS 4
If you want to include more than the default languages, use this to add/include as many languages you want.
.br
You can either add each language by its own, or list them within quotes.
.RE

.OP "-L"
.RS 4
See the logfile.
.RE

.OP "-p LOCATION[NUM]"
.RS 4
Where LOCATION is one of:
.br
.I tl, tc, tr, br, bc, bl, cl, cc, cr
.br
Optional one could add, without space, the number of the pip width, default is 320.
.RE

.OP "-q RES"
.RS 4
Encodeds the video to RES settings, preserves aspect ratio, but might produces border.
.br
Where RES is one of the labels of the presets.
.br
Same as:
.B vhs -Q vga -d vga inputvideo
.RE

.OP "-Q RES"
.RS 4
Encodeds the video to RES settings, might become streched.
.br
Where RES is one of the labels of the presets.
.RE

.OP "-r RATE"
.RS 4
Use audio frequency rate RATE.
.br
This is usualy one of the three values: 44100, 48000 or 96000.
.RE

.OP "-R"
.RS 4
Use default audio frequency rate.
.br
See: $HOME/.config/vhs/vhs.conf
.RE

.OP "-S"
.RS 4
Saving the screen stream, using internal microphon for audio.
.RE

.OP "-t"
.RS 4
Enables the saving of subtitles.
.br
Beside your two favorite langauges, only languages provided will be saved.
.br
See
.B -l LNG
for more details.
.RE

.OP "-T TIME"
.RS 4
Sets the timeout between multiple video encodings.
.br
TIME can be any positive integer number, followed by either 's' for second, 'm' for minute or 'h' for hour.
.br
As in:
.B vhs -T 5m *
.RE

.OP "-v"
.RS 4
Verbose mode (classic), shows the default output of ffmpeg.
.RE

.OP "-V"
.RS 4
Verbose mode (tui), shows more detailed information of vhs.
.RE

.OP "-w"
.RS 4
Web-Optimized, moves the video info block to front of the file.
.RE

.OP "-W"
.RS 4
Records a video using your webcam.
.br
Set the default resolution of the recording quality in the configuration menu. 
.B (-C)
.br
VHS will read out the properties of your webcam and lets you choose among reckognized modes.
.RE

.OP "-x"
.RS 4
Clean the logfile, overwrite with an empty logfile.
.RE

.OP "-X"
.RS 4
Remove all custom VHS settings and start new.
.RE

.OP "-y"
.RS 4
Simply copies ALL streams from input to output file. Fake encoding.
.RE

.OP "-z 1:23[-1:04:45[.15]"
.RS 4
Encodes 1 minute from given start time, or until provided end-time-mark.
.RE


.SH EXAMPLES
At all times, without any required arguments, the output file  will be as configured in the config file (default: mkv).
.br
You can change to any container you want, for a one-time-use, by passing
.B "-e webm"
so it would encode 'this' video to webm.
.br
If you change the container/extension to an audio format, it will output an audiofile only.
.br
At each call, you'll be presented an invoked call of
.B vhs -i inputfile
to show the file its streams.

.IP "vhs filename"
Will encode 'filename' according to your configured favorite settings

.IP "vhs -e mp3 -I 1 -z 3:41.15-1:16:21.007 InputVideo.webm"
This will extract the audio stream #1 from InputVideo.webm starting at 3 minutes 41 seconds and 150 milisecs and stops at 1 hour 16 minutes 21 seconds and 7 miliseconds, saving it as mp3.

.IP "vhs -Dq qvga"
Use this to prepare a DVD for your smartphone.

.IP "vhs -Dtl jpn"
This will encode the DVD/BR/LD in your drive, including subtitles and add japanese to the list of langauges, both, subtitle and audio.
.br
Note that you can configure vhs to use only one, or two langauges by default for all your output files.

.IP "vhs -SQ yt-1080"
Will record your screen and save the file at youtube bitrates as 1920x1080 video.
.br
Note that if your desktop/screen resolution is smaller, you have no benefit but a larger file.

.IP "vhs -Wq yt-720"
This will require your computer to have a webcam connected or internaly enabled, and will save the output video at youtube presets for HD Ready videos, preserving the aspect ratio of your webcam (eg: 640:-1)
.br
If you just want to do your personal video log, it could be reduced to:
.B "vhs -W"



.SH FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQ)
.B 1. "When i want to save a video with subtitles it keeps failing."
.br
Try to just copy the subtitle codec by passing
.B -c tcopy

.br
.B 2. "I have many files to encode, and it keeps asking me to select which language to choose for each file."
.br
Assuming the desired language is always on the same stream id, you could use:
.B vhs -I 1 inputvideo
.br
If you want to include multiple audio streams, and want to avoid beeing asked for each video, you could use either one of:
.br
*
.B vhs -I "'3 4'" inputvideo
.br
*
.B vhs -I 3 -I 4 inputvideo
.br

.B 3. "After saving subtitles with a video, the font looks diffrent."
.br
Have you made sure the attachments were used, using the 
.B -j
toggle?




.SH SEE ALSO
.B ffmpeg
(1),
.B tui
(1),
.B vobcopy
(1)



.SH LICENSE
GNU General Public License (GPL)
.br
http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html



.SH CONTACT
erat.simon@gmail.com
.br
http://linux-scripter.blogspot.com



.SH BUG REPORTS
Please visit "https://github.com/sri-arjuna/vhs/issues" to report bugs or other feedback
